Beginner
Beginner exercises do not require previous experience of physical activity or special training to perform. A person can usually increase the intensity as they advance in their cardiovascular ability.

Marching in place
Marching in place can elevate the heart rate, making this exercise a suitable choice for a warm-up or single cardio activity.

To increase the intensity, a person can increase the speed they march or raise the knees higher.

Single leg stand
This exercise works the abdominal muscles.

To perform:

Start with the feet together or no more than 3 inches (in) apart.
Bend the knees slightly and lift one leg 3–6 in off the floor.
Hold this position for 10–15 seconds and return the foot to the floor.
Repeat for the opposite leg.
To increase difficulty, a person can lift their leg higher off the floor or jump from one leg to the other more quickly.

Jogging in place
Jogging in place is a simple and effective exercise to increase heart rate. This is also a suitable beginner warm-up activity.

To perform, bounce lightly from one foot to the other. At the same same, swing the arms from side to side.

Air jump rope
The air jump rope requires a person to “swing” an imaginary jump rope in the air. The exercise provides an alternative to jogging in place and is suitable as part of a warm-up routine.

To perform, stand with the feet together and jump up and down while swinging the arms in a circular direction.

Arm circles
A person can perform arm circles while sitting or standing, making them ideal for all skill levels.

To perform:

Rotate the arms in a circular motion, both clockwise and counterclockwise. The movement may resemble a butterfly or backstroke.
If a person has limited mobility in their arms, they can extend their arms to their sides and draw small circles.
Jumping jacks
Jumping jacks are a beginner cardiovascular exercise that a person can perform almost anywhere.

To perform:

Begin with the feet hip-width apart and arms down.
Raise the arms out to the sides, straight in the air while jumping out with the feet apart.
Jump back into the starting position and land softly on the balls of the feet, bringing the arms back into the body.
A person can increase the exercise intensity by jumping higher or faster. They can also reduce intensity by performing slower or smaller jumping jacks.

Supine snow angel (wipers) exercise
A person should perform this exercise while lying down, which works the abdominal muscles, chest, and shoulders.

To perform:

Lie on the back with the feet flat on the ground.
Tuck the pelvis slightly to place the lower back on the floor.
Extend the arms from the shoulders, slightly bending the hands toward the ears.
Slowly raise the hands toward the head to meet each other.
Lower the hands to the starting position and repeat.
Intermediate exercises
Intermediate exercises increase the intensity of the workout to get the heart pumping and the body moving.

Squat jumps
Squat jumps are a way to increase the exercise intensity while working the glutes, quadriceps, hamstrings, and calves.

To perform:

Stand with the feet hip-width apart and arms at the sides.
Bend at the knees to squat.
From the squat position, jump in the air and extend the hips until the body is straight.
Land softly on the balls of the feet, rolling backward to absorb the shock in the heels.
Repeat using different arm movements to adjust the difficulty.
Jump rope
Increase the difficulty of jumping an air rope in the beginner exercises to jumping with a real rope at home.

A person can alternate between jumping with both feet and jumping from one foot to the other.

Squat to front kick
This exercise will challenge a person’s balance by adding a single leg kick at the peak of the squat position.

To perform:

Stand with the feet hip-width apart and arms at the sides.
Bend at the knees to squat down.
Return to standing and extend one leg to perform a front kick.
Repeat the kick on the other side.
Trunk rotation
The trunk rotation works the abdominal muscles while testing the cardiovascular system.

To increase the intensity, a person can hold a heavy weight, such as a kettlebell, exercise ball, or other household items.

To perform:

Stand with a heavy object at chest height with elbows to the sides.
Twist from the torso, turning to one side, then the other.
A person can also hold the arms at shoulder height and twist side to side.
“Screamer” lunges
Screamer lunges help build leg muscles while challenging the heart.

To perform:

Stand with the feet hip-width apart.
Extend the right leg back to a lunge position.
Push off with the right foot to lift the right knee to hip height, jumping in the air while doing so.
Return the right foot to the starting position and repeat for 10 lunges on one side.
Repeat for the left leg.
Stair climb
A person can incorporate stairs into a workout by going up and down them several times.

Taking the stairs two at a time and increasing speed to a running pace can further challenge the cardiovascular system and leg muscles.

Lateral shuffles
This shuffling motion closely resembles a football or speed-skating warm-up.

To perform:

Start on one end of a room and squat slightly.
Shuffle toward the other side of the room, with the feet meeting together before shuffling out and forward again.
Pick up speed and increase the squat depth to increase the exercise intensity.
Advanced exercises
A person can increase the intensity — referring to the rate and repetitions — of any cardio exercise to convert them into advanced movements.

However, some exercises are also more complicated and involve transitions from floor to standing.

Mountain climbers
Mountain climbers are an advanced exercise to work the whole body, especially the lower portion.

To perform:

Start in a pushup position with the right leg extended backward and the left leg near the chest with the toes on the ground.
Keeping the hands on the ground and hips level, quickly switch the positions of the legs.
Continue to alternate the legs.
Burpees
Burpees are an advanced full-body move to get the heart pumping.

To perform:

Start with the body in a pushup position.
Push off the balls of the feet to bring the knees into the chest and land in a squat.
Jump out of the squat, raising the hands in the air before landing softly back into the squat.
Place the hands back on the floor underneath the shoulders.
Spring the legs back to return to the starting position.
If a person wishes to increase the difficulty further, they can use a special exercise device called a Bosu ball.
